
Your essential guide to the opening weekend of Rio Olympics 2016



This summer's Olympic Games gets underway this weekend with Team GB hoping to land their first medal in the first 48 hours of the prestigious event.Here, Sportsmail lists six key things to look out for over the course of the next two days.THE ONE EVENT YOU MUST NOT MISSWatch Adam Peaty in the 100 metres breaststroke heats from 7.04pm on Saturday and stay up to see his final at 2.53am on Monday — if you possibly can. The 21-year-old is the world record-holder and world champion and the hot favourite for gold. Work on Monday morning can wait.Adam Peaty has a good chance of winning gold if the Brit lives up to his full potentialWHERE'S THE FIRST BRITISH GOLD LIKELY TO COME FROM?Three-time Tour de France winner Chris Froome leads the British charge in the men’s cycling road race from 1.30pm on Saturday. Women’s world champion Lizzie Armitstead won the first British medal of London 2012 — a silver — and could go even better in the women’s race from 4.15pm on Sunday.Chris Froome could become the first Brit to win a gold medal at this year's Olympic GamesWHICH OTHER BRITS COULD WIN A MEDAL?He is the world champion in the 200m freestyle, but don’t discount 20-year-old James Guy in the 400m free (final on Sunday, 2.30am). Three-time Olympian Hannah Miley also has an outside chance in the 400m individual medley (final on Sunday, 2.49am), while Jazz Carlin competes in the 400m freestyle (final Monday, 3.01am). Keep an eye on Celebrity Big Brother contestant Ashley McKenzie in the judo on Saturday (from 9am), too, and European fencing champion James-Andrew Davis, 25, in the men’s foil from 2pm on Sunday.Former reality TV contestant Ashley McKenzie also has a good chance of winning a medalWHO ELSE IS IN ACTION FROM TEAM GB?Our women’s rugby sevens team face Brazil (4pm on Saturday), Japan (9pm on Saturday) and Canada (4.30pm on Sunday) in the group stages as the sport makes its Olympic debut. The quarter-finals start from 9pm on Sunday and Great Britain are expected to feature. Men’s and women’s hockey also gets under way, with British teams in both competitions, while London 2012 stars such as Katherine Grainger (women’s double scull with Vicky Thornley, heat at 3pm on Saturday), Helen Glover and Heather Stanning (women’s pair, heat at 2.10pm on Sunday) begin their Olympic rowing campaigns at the Lagoa Stadium. Keep an eye on British teams in the men’s and women’s gymnastics qualifying events, too.WHAT ABOUT THE REST OF THE WORLD?China are tipped to win the first gold medal of 2016 in the women’s 10m air rifle final from 2.30pm on Saturday and look out for the USA’s 19-year-old American swimming sensation Katie Ledecky, who is bidding for the first of three gold medals in the women’s 400m freestyle, plus 18-time Olympic champion Michael Phelps in the men’s 4x100m freestyle relay (final 3.52am, Monday). You may have to watch the highlights of this over breakfast, admittedly.MEANWHILE DOWN AT THE COPACABANA...The beach volleyball, a hugely popular sport in Brazil, takes place on the famous Copacabana from 2pm on Saturday. A little bit different to its home on Horse Guards Parade at London 2012, it must be said.Beach volleyball will be played out on the Copacabana this weekend.