
Rio Olympics - Golden Memories: Sportsmail's reporters in Brazil reflect on a glittering Games for Team GB



After two-and-a-half weeks of non-stop sporting action, the Rio Olympics came to a close on Sunday night.Team GB will fly home with a ground-breaking 67 medals, 27 of which were gold, from athletes in 19 different sports.Here, Sportsmail's reporters in the Brazilian capital relive the excitement of the event, picking out their stars of the Games and those to watch when the spectacle moves on to Tokyo in four years' time...Mo Farah crosses the line to win the 5,000m and with it the Olympic double doubleUsain Bolt gets his teeth into Olympic gold medal number nine at the Rio ceremonyJustin Rose celebrates winning the first men's Olympic golf competition for over 100 yearsMichael Phelps took his medal tally to extraordinary new heights in the Rio poolNeymar is given a crown after scoring the winning penalty in the football tournamentLaura Trott and Jason Kenny took five gold medals back to their Cheshire homeAdam Peaty twice crushed the 100m breaststroke world record en route to his gold medalGreat Britain's medal heroes prepare to fly home - but not before a quick selfieMATT LAWTON - CHIEF SPORTS REPORTERBEST GB MALE - Adam Peaty: Tough call this given the quality of the British performances but I'd actually argue Peaty's was the stand-out individual performance of any athlete at the Games. He's a game-changer. So far ahead of the rest and forcing his rivals to look at the way they actually execute the breaststroke with his unique leg-kick.BEST GB FEMALE - Laura Trott: Pound for pound the best female cyclist in the world. Again, some strong contenders. But Britain's most successful female Olympian is my pick simply because she is so superior to her rivals.BIGGEST WOW MOMENT: Jason Kenny's burst of acceleration in his keirin semi-final. He was like Sonic the Hedgehog, a bike-length of air suddenly appearing between the Briton and the other riders. Just amazing.Kenny and Trott embrace after the former completed his Olympic gold medal treble in RioPeaty celebrates with his gold following his romp to the 100m breaststroke titleJuan Martin del Potro, left, and Andy Murray hug following a marathon tennis finalUSA's golden gymnast Simone Biles was the star of the gymnastics arenaWayde van Niekerk destroyed the 400m world record which had stood for 17 yearsULTIMATE GAMES MEMORY: That moment when Bradley Wiggins and Co finally hit the front against Australia in the men's team pursuit final. The race of the Games, for sure. My arms were shaking, not least because we were right on deadline and I had made an 800-word gamble on a British victory.BIGGEST DISAPPOINTMENT: The reaction of Lizzie Armitstead and her inner circle to the missed drugs test controversy. Blamed everyone but themselves, including the same British Cycling officials who were so supportive of her in the first place. Perhaps too supportive in hindsight.Lizzie Armitstead raced in Rio after avoiding a ban for missing three drugs testsSir Bradley Wiggins leads the men's team pursuit quartet to victory in the velodromeWiggins collected his fifth Olympic gold medal and eighth of any colourNON-GB STAR: Usain Bolt. The ultimate showman and the ultimate competitor. It was an absolute privilege to see him complete another clean sweep of sprint golds, securing his position as the greatest Olympian in history.TIP FOR TOKYO: Ryan Owens. Came to Rio as a reserve for Jason Kenny and the sprinters in the velodrome but the 20-year-old is a serious talent. At the holding camp in Newport he was almost as quick as Kenny over the flying 200.Usain Bolt shadow boxes prior to his 100m heat as he entertains the crowdBolt breezed to victory in the 100m semi-final with a smile to the cameraDEREK LAWRENSON - GOLF CORRESPONDENTBEST GB MALE - Adam Peaty: There's nothing in sport that beats momentum and, following a rough start for Team GB, the swimming wonder changed the atmosphere entirely with his remarkable breaststroke victory. We all know what happened next.BEST GB FEMALE - Laura Trott: Not only an amazing athlete but was there anyone who did not fall in love with her listening to her afterwards? A killer's instinct around the velodrome and yet so humble and feminine outside it — truly a heroine for our age.BIGGEST WOW MOMENT: So many, but to see Justin Rose stick up for Olympic golf before it began and then finish up with the gold medal after an epic shootout was not only a wow moment but a perfect outcome.ULTIMATE GAMES MEMORY: Probably the moment when the swimmer Chad le Clos looked across his lane at Michael Phelps and realised there was nothing he could do. The glory and anguish of top-class sport, summed up in an instant.Rose raises his arms above his head after a par putt on the last guaranteed him goldChad le Clos looks over to see Phelps about to beat him to butterfly gold in the poolBIGGEST DISAPPOINTMENT: Sitting among the paying customers on different nights watching Mo Farah and Usain Bolt, it was hard to credit the apathy — and that was among those who'd bothered to turn up. Heartbreaking, given what they were witnessing.NON-GB STAR: Are we allowed to declare a dead heat between Phelps and Bolt? They're certainly the two most extraordinary Olympians in my lifetime, and I'm not sure how swimming and athletics are going to cope without them.TIP FOR TOKYO: Katy Marchant. The 23-year-old cycling sprint specialist will surely trade her bronze for gold. And, after golf's pleasing re-introduction in Rio, imagine what it will be like in golf-mad Japan. To be staged at one of the world's great courses in Kasumigaseki, it might well prove to be the hottest ticket in town.Phelps celebrates winning gold in the men's 200m individual medleyJEFF POWELL - BOXING CORRESPONDENTBEST GB MALE - Mo Farah: No getting around a golden double double, I'm afraid. Why not go to the Tokyo 2020 and treble down like the Bolt?BEST GB FEMALE - Nicola Adams: The first British boxer to win a gold medal at successive Olympics for almost a century. And a ray of sunshine.BIGGEST WOW MOMENT: Usain Bolt winning the 200m en route to his unique treble treble, complete with the spark anger at not breaking the 19-second barrier, followed by the wonderful showman's celebrations of his feat. The superstar's superstar.Nicola Adams defended her Olympic title to claim one of Team GB's 27 goldsBolt strikes his familiar 'lightning bolt' celebratory pose following victory in the 200mULTIMATE GAMES MEMORY: Neymar completing his journey from zero to hero by converting the gold medal penalty against Germany while carrying the weight of an entire football-crazed nation on those slender shoulders, even as the vultures swirled above his head waiting for him to falter. Pressure? Only the San Andreas fault is subjected to more.TIP FOR TOKYO: Russia's track and field athletes to gate-crash the party and mine some of the GB gold.Neymar falls to the floor in tears after Brazil's football success in the MaracanaRIATH AL-SAMARRAIBEST GB MALE - Max Whitlock: To win one gymnastics gold was good enough to make history, to win two in the same night made him truly special. Added bonus points for holding his nerve in the brilliant all-British showdown with Louis Smith, as well. Delighted to have been there.BEST GB FEMALE - Maddie Hinch: Instinct says Laura Trott, Charlotte Dujardin or Nicola Adams but Hinch was worth more than a gold medal or two. She was worth 16 – one for each her team-mates after that performance in the hockey final. An incredible act of stubbornness. They'd have been buried without her.BIGGEST WOW MOMENT: Watching Simone Biles win the all-round gymnastics. Found myself saying 'What the hell was that?' or something a little stronger, about half-a-dozen times during her floor routine. I've never seen anything quite like it. No athlete in any sport was that much better than the rest.Max Whitlock picked up Great Britain's first ever individual gymnastics goldBiles collected four gold medals and a bronze from a remarkable debut GamesULTIMATE GAMES MEMORY: Lutalo Muhammad's reaction to losing taekwondo gold with the final kick of the fight. Utter devastation. Not the nicest memory, granted, but one that will stick. It was the depth of feeling that showed exactly what the Games mean to its competitors.TIP FOR TOKYO: Japan have an entirely different social and economic situation to Brazil but they must ensure they get the ticketing right. It's a bad joke that an Olympic Games can be played out to half empty stadiums. A good atmosphere makes any event better.Lutalo Muhammad was one second away from claiming a taekwondo gold for Team GBMuhammad was in tears as he gave an interview in the immediate aftermath of his fightMIKE DICKSON - TENNIS CORRESPONDENTBEST GB MALE - Mo Farah: With apologies to the likes of Andy Murray and many other well-qualified candidates it has to be Farah. While the acreage of empty seats was sad to see, and the sport's issues well-documented, track and field will always be the true soul of the Olympics. To back up his double from London was an incredible effort, especially with others teaming against him and the Russian absence being irrelevant.BEST GB FEMALE - Maddie Hinch: Being padded up like a Mummy with a Hannibal Lechter mask on - goalkeeper in either form of hockey is not one of the most glamorous tasks in sport. But Hinch showed why she is regarded as the finest at her art in the world. She was more responsible than anyone for holding back the black and orange tide of Holland that surged at Great Britain in the final, showing a combination of skill, nous and bravery. She wore it lightly afterwards, too.Maddie Hinch was the star as GB beat Holland on penalties to win women's hockey goldBIGGEST WOW MOMENT: The British men's four surging down the lagoon to take the gold medal. Four men, an interesting and diverse collection, working in perfect athletic harmony to obliterate the opposition with another rowing masterclass was a sight to see. The incredible performance of this boat at successive Olympic Games, put together by Jurgen Grobler, is one of British sport's more underrated achievements. The other Mo – oarsman Mo Sbihi – is among the best in the business.ULTIMATE GAMES MEMORY: The dignity of athletes in victory and defeat, which was often quite extraordinary given the pinnacle nature of most events. The way athletes behave in taekwondo, while more formalised in the culture, at the end of a six-minute pub fight reflects well on the sport. So too the genuine respect and commiseration/congratulation between rowing crews post-medal race. Not a four-year cycle thing but Andy Murray's embrace with Juan Martin Del Potro continued the trend.Murray saw off Argentinian opponent Del Potro in four sets to defend his Olympic titleNON-GB STAR: There are 2,000 metal springs under a gymnastics floor and Simone Biles seemed to use every one of them to propel herself to astonishing heights in her routines. A tiny wisp of a thing, her ability to galvanise interest in a hard-to-please Olympic market like the USA is not to be underestimated. Olga Korbut and Nadia Comaneci are still remembered decades on, and she will be too.BIGGEST DISAPPOINTMENT: The attitude of professional golfers and, less obviously, too many tennis players, was verging on the pathetic with their excuses for not coming. As it turned out most of us barely saw or heard of a mosquito the whole time we were out there. Predictably enough, the golfers who came loved it. A special spot on the naughty step for Rory McIlroy, whose 'I didn't get into golf to try and grow the game' comment will be among the most crass of the year.TIP FOR TOKYO: Still only 22 and fourth in the 200m, and with his Royal Boltness out of the way, what a boost it would be for athletics if Adam Gemili's talent can fully blossom. He seems to have charisma too. Sophie Bray, the skilful Surrey flyer for the GB hockey team, is another to watch.Adam Gemili is left frustrated after missing out on a medal in the 200m finalMARTHA KELNER - ATHLETICS CORRESPONDENTBEST GB MALE - Max Whitlock: I've spent a bit of time with Max for Sportsmail's Road to Rio series and he's a genuinely lovely man and lives an almost monastic lifestyle in order to be the very best. To win Great Britain's first Olympic gymnastics gold on the floor was as incredible as it was unexpected and then to win a second gold hours later, a genuine game changer.BEST GB FEMALE - Jade Jones: The feat of defending her Olympic taekwondo title went under the radar mainly because it happened seconds before Usain Bolt completed the sprint double. Watch the video though of 500 of her supporters packed into Flint Town Football Club though and see what it meant to them.Jade Jones, at the age of 23, is a two-time Olympic gold medallist in taekwondoBIGGEST WOW MOMENT: Wayde van Niekerk breaking Michael Johnson's 17-year-old 400m record from lane eight of all places. It was 43.03sec of brilliance and a narrative made even better by the fact his coach is a 74-year-old great grandmother. It also did not make me feel uneasy in the way the staggering 10,000m women's world record set by Almaz Ayana had done two days earlier.ULTIMATE GAMES MEMORY: I think the story of Caster Semenya will stay with me for a long time: an image of her hurrying through the mixed zone where journalists and athletes confer after races, head down while her rivals discussed her right to be in the race. I hope she does not suffer any lasting damage from what has been an ugly episode at times.Van Niekerk poses next to the sign showing he is the new 400m world record holderCaster Semenya competed against a backdrop of constant suspicion but still claimed goldNON-GB STAR: A little predictable perhaps but gymnast Simone Biles who travels back to America with four golds and a bronze. Her floor routine was one of the most incredible sporting feats I've witnessed live. She did it four times over 10 days and didn't put a toenail out of place. Same goes for her vault.BIGGEST DISAPPOINTMENT: Katarina Johnson-Thompson, who has so much potential in the heptathlon but can't seem to put it together when it matters. She looked haunted during the javelin and afterwards as she reminded everyone how young she was. But she had just been beaten by a woman two years her junior.TIP FOR TOKYO: The 110m hurdler David Omoregie is only 20. Already a world junior record holder.Katarina Johnson-Thompson endured a difficult second day in the heptathlonJON MCEVOY - OLYMPICS CORRESPONDENTBEST GB MALE - Adam Peaty: For twice breaking his private 100m breaststroke world record. In his debut swim, he reduced it from 57.92sec to 57.55sec. Then to 57.13sec in the final. Nobody else has gone remotely under 58. In the relay he propelled Team GB from sixth to first and even Michael Phelps mumbled astonished congratulations on the podium.BEST GB FEMALE - Laura Trott: With two golds in Rio, a four-time Olympic champion at the age of 24. It is too early to make her dame – it would be ludicrous if she spent the next decade being introduced in the velodrome as such – but it will rightly come one day.Peaty charges towards breaststroke gold, while he also added a medley relay silverTrott is in tears on the podium after defending her Olympic omnium titleBIGGEST WOW MOMENT: Hearing the Maracana throbbing with Brazilian football fans for the final against Germany. It is the only sport the locals really care about. And when Neymar scored the decisive penalty he fell to his knees and looked to the heavens. It was a victory for the wider country.ULTIMATE GAMES MEMORY: Witnessing the last of the greatness of Usain Bolt. He leaves the Olympics with a hole the size of an IOC member's expense account. It is not just his treble treble in the sprints but the way he has worn the serious business of winning with unmatched charisma. He has carried athletics and it knows the debt it owes him.BIGGEST DISAPPOINTMENT: Ryan Lochte, the frat boy swimmer who drunkenly claimed he had been robbed at gunpoint. The American papers were as critical as anyone, with one describing him as 'The Ugly American'. The Brazilians enjoyed unmasking his cock-and-bull story – a PR masterstroke for an often chaotic Games.Ryan Lochte caused controversy after feigning a robbery at gunpoint in RioNON-GB STAR: Michael Phelps back from retirement to rack up five more golds, and a silver, to augment his status as the most decorated Olympian in history. He says he will not be tempted back to add to his 23 titles and, happily, he seems reconciled to a life outside the pool. But can he resist coming back to make it a half-century?TIP FOR TOKYO: Andre de Grasse, the 21-year-old Canadian who took bronze in the 100m and silver in the 200m, to fill a fraction of the void left by Bolt. He showed some chutzpah by taking on the great man in the 200m semi-final and looking across smiling at him as they crossed the line.Bolt smiles at Andre de Graffe as the pair finish first and second in the 200m finalThe views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.