
From Paddy McNair's own goal gaffe to Sadio Mane's super strike against Arsenal... how did the Premier League debutants fare on opening weekend?



Across the nine Premier League matches played across the weekend, 32 players made their competitive debuts for new clubs.John Stones started for Man City after his £47.5million move from Everton, while Paddy McNair had a debut to forget after coming off the bench for Sunderland.Among the other names making their first appearances were Alvaro Negredo and Andros Townsend... but how did they get on?Sportsmail looks at each of the 32 debutants and rates their performances...David Moyes and Pep Guardiola made managerial debuts, but how did the players get on?ARSENALRob Holding – 5It all started so promisingly for the summer signing from Bolton. His day, though, slowly deteriorated. Handed a lesson in how harsh the Premier League can be for a defender. What will this do for his confidence?Granit Xhaka – 6.5The £34million man started the encounter on the bench but was introduced when Arsenal were chasing the game. He showed some nice touches – and picked up a booking (probably the first of quite a few). There's more to come from the Switzerland international.Young defender Rob Holding endured a difficult Premier League debut for ArsenalLIVERPOOLSadio Mane – 8.5Debuts do not come much better than this. His goal was outstanding but his all-round play was just as good. At times Liverpool couldn't deal with his pace and power. What a way to announce yourself to the Anfield faithful.Georginio Wijnaldum – 7Given he was part of the Newcastle team relegated last season, the Dutchman was, perhaps, a surprise signing by Jurgen Klopp. But he's already showed his worth – setting up Adam Lallana's goal.Liverpool new boy Georginio Wijnaldum tries to avoid a challenge from Hector BellerinRagnar Klavan – 6.5Not the most high-profile arrival at Anfield this summer – but this looks a shrewd bit of business from Klopp. There's nothing frilly about the Estonian. What you see is what you get. Rugged and combative, he stood firm when Liverpool needed him.BOURNEMOUTHJordan Ibe - 6.5He was always wanting the ball and more often than not received it, out on the right, stretching United's defence, coming inside, or occasionally floating out to the left. When he dribbles with the ball, opponents move backwards, he is that quick. Still impressive, despite the result.Lewis Cook - 6Hard to tell Cook — a £7million signing from Leeds United — is still a teenager and that he has not been playing in the centre of the park in Premier League matches for a very long time. The 19-year-old has excellent close control and can pop the ball all over the middle third.Jordon Ibe (left) impressed on his debut despite Bournemouth's 3-1 defeat on SundayMANCHESTER UNITEDZlatan Ibrahimovic - 8What a strike to mark his Premier League debut, finding the bottom left corner with a 30-yard low. right-footed shot. Every single volleyed lay-off or pass he played, from goal kicks or long passes forward, found its man. His strength to hold off opposition defenders is a marvel. At one stage he flattened two Bournemouth defenders leaping for a header and merely stood up himself, scratching his head.Eric Bailly - 7.5He looks so composed already. His passing range — short, or picking out wingers with mid-length deliveries — and accuracy were spot on. Bailly could have been playing in that United back line pulling the strings for years, not five minutes.Manchester United defender Eric Bailly (right) helped his side to victory on the south coastHenrikh Mkhitaryan - 6Came on for the last 15 minutes, replacing Juan Mata. He had little time to make his mark and United were already winding down — like Usain Bolt in the last 30 metres of a 100m heat — by that stage. A brief moment of tidy dribbling.MAN CITYJohn Stones - 5Thrown in the deep end four days after record-breaking £47.5million move from Everton. Acquitted himself well on the ball but showed defensive naivety by failing to make a challenge on Adnan Januzaj and allowing him to set up Jermain Defoe for Sunderland's goalNolito - 6.5Chose to sign for City rather than former club Barcelona from Celta Vigo but didn't make the same impact as he had for Spain at an impressive Euro 2016. Came close with one shot before making way for Jesus Navas after an hourJohn Stones (right) was thrown into the deep end but he showed defensive naivetySUNDERLANDDonald Love - 6Right-back signed from Manchester United impressed until Navas replaced Nolito and Raheem Sterling switched to the left-hand side. It meant Love faced a difficult last half-hour and he was rightly booked when he lost to the ball to Sterling and immediately brought down the winger.Paddy McNair - 5He'd love to forget this debut. The Northern Ireland international came on for Defoe after 83 minutes to try and help Sunderland see the game out for a draw. Instead, he scored the decisive own goal four minutes later, Vito Mannone palming a cross in the air and McNair inadvertently heading the ball in.Paddy McNair (left) had a debut to forget, coming on late to score an own goalAdnan Januzaj - 7Sunderland manager David Moyes loved this player at Manchester United and will be delighted to have him on loan in the north-east this season. Made a significant change when he came off the bench and put in a sliderule pass for Defoe's equaliser.BURNLEYJohann Gudmundsson - 6Only handed a substitute appearance but tried to make things happen in possession and saw a late free-kick blocked by a stubborn Swansea wall.Johann Gudmundsson tried to make things happen for Burnley after coming onSWANSEAFernando Llorente - 7Certainly an upgrade on what Swansea have operated with up front in the past, Llorente possessing the physical strength to bully defenders off the ball but whose link-up play is also exemplary. Key header for Fer's eventual winner.EVERTONMaarten Stekelenburg - 8Could not have done more to make a positive first impression, his two saves as Tottenham ramped up the pressure from Erik Lamela and Vincent Janssen securing him the Man of the Match award.Maarten Stekelenburg was very impressive for Everton, making two important savesIdrissa Gueye - 7.5Ronald Koeman was delighted with the way his £7.1million buy from Aston Villa performed, his energy and intensity will be crucial to the manager's game plan succeeding.TOTTENHAMVincent Janssen - 7Had to wait until 57 minutes to get his opportunity but made a big impact when he came on, almost nicking a winner. Looks like he can play alongside Harry Kane.Vincent Janssen (centre) came on as a substitute and almost nicked a winner for SpursVictor Wanyama - 6Mauricio Pochettino knows him well and he didn't do anything wrong, screening Tottenham's defence and keeping everything neat and tidy.CRYSTAL PALACEAndros Townsend - 6.5Struggled to make much of an impression on his Palace debut. A few decent runs in the first half but was well marshalled by Jonny Evans. Was switched with Wilfried Zaha after the break and saw even less of the ball.Andros Townsend struggled to make an impression in a poor Palace display at SelhurstWEST BROMWICH ALBIONMatt Phillips - 5A fairly low key debut for the man signed from QPR. Saw one effort go wide but nothing much else to report. Mind you, this wasn't an adventurous attacking performance from the Baggies and he did the basics well enough.LEICESTERAhmed Musa - 6.5Created two chances that could well have been converted and promised much besides through his searing pace. Might need to drop deeper more often to link midfield and attack.Ahmed Musa (right) showed his searing pace but may need to drop deeper in futureLuis Hernandez - 5.5Looked composed in place of suspended Robert Huth, intercepting well consistently. But Wes Morgan missed his partner in crime at the back.MIDDLESBROUGHVictor Valdes - 5The former Manchester United and Barcelona keeper flapped at a first-half corner and should have done far better for Shaqiri's equaliser. It was a far from convincing debut.Victor Valdes flapped at an early corner and was far from convincing on his Boro debutAntonio Barragan - 7The Spaniard looked a class act at the heart of the defence - save for one nervy back-pass - and, given he can also operate at full-back, he could prove a very useful addition.Alvaro Negredo - 6.5The Valencia loanee got his goal through sheer will but still looked a little off the pace as the game wore on. The best is still to come you feel.Alvaro Negredo showed sheer will to score his goal but was off the pace against StokeMarten de Roon - 6The £12m Dutch midfielder only lasted 18 minutes before succumbing to a hamstring problem.STOKEN/ASOUTHAMPTONNathan Redmond - 7.5Claude Puel has declared his intention to turn Redmond into the next Thierry Henry and for a first snapshot of Redmond in a central role, this was a fine audition. Redmond scored a goal and was a constant menace with his dribbling ability.Nathan Redmond scored once and was a constant menace throughout on his Saints bowPierre-Emile Hobjberg - 6The Danish midfielder, 20, improved Southampton when he came on in the second half. Pep Guardiola is said to have told associates that he saw Hobjberg as a player with similar qualities to Sergio Busquets during his time at Bayern Munich and Saints' fan will be hoping to see more of their summer signing in the weeks to come.WATFORDJuan Camilo Zuniga - 6Played the last fifteen minutes and slotted in well as Watford protected their lead. He has previously played under coach Walter Mazzarri at Napoli.Juan Camilo Zuniga (left) only came on for 15 minutes but slotted in very nicely.