
Paul Pogba returns to Manchester United for world record fee... so, were they right to spend £100m on the France midfielder? Sportsmail's reporters have their say



Paul Pogba has finally completed his world-record move to Manchester United in a deal worth £100million.Manchester United allowed Pogba to leave for Juventus in 2012 for next to nothing and have had to break the bank to re-sign the 23-year-old.Sportsmail asks its panel of experts if it was worth paying Juventus and Mino Raiola's agent fees a world-record amount to bring him back to Old Trafford.IAN LADYMANAt this stage it's impossible to say as we will only know when we see what he does on the field. Rio Ferdinand looked over-priced at £30m when United bought him from Leeds in 2002 but didn't by the time he had helped the club to six league titles and a Champions League. Certainly, Pogba's price looks a little top heavy but the market dictates prices these days and the Premier League is so cash-rich now that they will only go one way from here. What we know is that United have lost serious ground over the last three seasons and transfers like this one represent a chance to catch up quickly.Paul Pogba has returned to Manchester United four years after leaving for JuventusLEE CLAYTONYes. This is the cost of three years of transfer mediocrity. United have slipped from their global throne where they once sat with Barcelona and Real Madrid. Bayern Munich, PSG and Juventus are on the rise across Europe and the world, Real and Barca are away in the distance. In England, Manchester City continue to grow in stature, United are not even a Champions League team for the time being, so they have had to pay and pay big. Welcome Paul Pogba. For all the managerial heavyweights, the Premier League needed a poster boy. And I like it that he brought his mum along for the medical and talks. I might do the same the next time I have a work issue to resolve. They wouldn't know what had hit them.ROB DRAPERYes, of course he is. You can get all huffy about the market rate, get agitated about his utterly mediocre performance in the Euro 2016 final, but for the best powerful, midfielder in the world who combines tackling, technique, drive and a decent strike, the price will always be somewhere north of £89, £90m. Real Madrid know this and don't worry about it. Better spend £100m on a player who gives you six good years than £30m on someone average who needs replacing for £30m in 18 months.SAMI MOKBELOn the pitch, United are acquiring undoubted talent - a footballer capable of dominating a football match the way Steven Gerrard did for Liverpool in his prime. Of course, £100m is an outrageous amount of money. But if United qualify for the Champions League and pick up a trophy or two then we will see immediate value. Off the pitch, Pogba will pay for himself. He's already one of world football's most recognisable players - his move to Old Trafford will merely increase his already stratospheric profile. United are now in a position to cash in on Brand Pogba. So, yes, he's worth the investment. He'll pay for himself off the pitch. Question is can he bring value on the pitch?Pogba has established himself as a key member of the France squadJOE BERNSTEINManchester United are being talked about this week and will be for the rest of the season. In the new uber showbiz world of football, that is incredibly important at a time when performances on the pitch have lagged so far behind their global rivals Barcelona, Real Madrid and Bayern Munich. Pogba is the long-term statement signing they needed to keep the sponsors dollars rolling in. From a purely football perspective it makes less sense, Pogba had less influence on the Euro 2016 final than Cristiano Ronaldo did on the sidelines. Jose Mourinho's big challenge will be making him a game-changer.NICK HARRISThe first issue of whether United can afford Paul Pogba is straightforward - yes. They will have income of around £500m in the coming season, and probably more. The outlay will also be spread over five years, as it must be for accounting reasons, so that's not an issue. As for whether they can 'afford' him in a less literal sense, the issue is can they afford NOT to invest, and bring their squad back to a competitive standard at the highest level. And that's a no. United should be signing the world's best players, and they've just got one. When he contributes to a return to the Champions League and a title tilt, his price tag will be irrelevant.Pogba will wear the No 6 shirt on his return to Old TraffordCRAIG HOPEIs he worth £100m compared to other deals this summer? No. Kante at a third of the price is the only evidence needed in that respect.But 'value' today is relative to the means of a club and, for United, he is absolutely worth £100m. He improves their side greatly and that is justification enough for over-spending on any player if you can afford it, which they can.MIKE KEEGANNo. You pay £89m for a game changer. Someone who can guarantee you something special. A Luis Suarez, a Gareth Bale, a Cristiano Ronaldo. Pogba is a good player with potential but he is not the finished article - and when you're shelling out £89m that's the least you should expect.Pogba improved during his time at Juventus and is now the most expensive player in the worldSAM CUNNINGHAMThis is an obscene amount of money to pay for a football player. It values him at greater than that of some football clubs in the Premier League. He has to return them to the Treble-winning ways of Sir Alex Ferguson for them to get a return on their investment greater than the outlay. That is unlikely. United are paying the price for clinging to greatness with revenue.KIERAN GILLYes. If we're living in a world where Ross McCormack can cost a Championship club £12m, then a £100m investment for a player seen as a superstar doesn't seem so much any more. Manchester United can afford it. Quite easily, in fact, and the first £100m purchase was never far away with the money in modern football. He's no Lionel Messi or Cristiano Ronaldo but Pogba is considered an icon, and that happens to come at a cost of £100m.Pogba came through the ranks at Manchester United and played in the youth teamsADAM CRAFTONHe is worth it for Manchester United at this moment in time and for the decade of service he should provide. The Italian newspaper Gazzetta wrote my favourite line about Pogba during the 2014 World Cup. They described him as an 'NBA athlete with Brazilian feet' and I think that's the perfect description. There are so few all-round midfielders these days. Players are often holding midfield players or floating No 10s. Pogba bucks the trend. He is 6ft 2in but he seems taller, wider and stronger. He's a powerhouse in the tackle, a prolific midfield goalscorer and a delicate provider of assists.The European Championship, however, showed that Pogba is still some way from being among the world's greatest midfielders. He is someone who is capable of deciding or decorating a game with a marvellous goal or assist but at only 23, he is still to develop the ability to dictate the tempo and rhythm of a game like the greatest midfielders do. That took time for Xavi, Paul Scholes, Andrea Pirlo and Co to achieve and Pogba can eventually reach that level - but it will take some time.The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.