
Our Olympians as you have never seen before... Amber Hill, Max Whitlock and Co painted as Amazonian animals



These stunning photographs by Sportsmail's ANDY HOOPER show what happened when some of our Olympic and Paralympic hopefuls were painted as animals of the Amazon by body artist EMMA FAY, ahead of the Games in Brazil which begin on Friday.1. AMBER HILL - SHOOTINGAmber, 18, is competing in the skeet after winning gold at the European Games in Baku last year. She said: 'Baku prepared me on a smaller scale of what to expect and hopefully I'll see the benefits in Rio.'Team GB shooter Amber Hill is all smiles as she is transformed from an international athlete into a toucanBody paint is applied onto Hill's back as she takes part in the exercise alongside a selection of her Olympic team-matesThe teenager from Berkshire sits still as the toucan on her back starts to take shape as the body artist shows off her skillsHill (pictured on the left as a toucan) won gold at Baku 2015 and is hoping to replicate her previous success this summer2. MOE SBIHI AND PAM RELPH - ROWINGMoe, 28, competes in the Olympic men's four after winning bronze in the eight in London. He said: 'Being an Olympic medallist is cool but we are striving to be a champion.' Pam Relph, 26, goes in the mixed coxed four at the Paralympics having won gold in 2012.Rowers Moe Sbihi (left) and Pam Relph pose together as they prepare to transform into a crocodileThe two Rio 2016 athletes show complete concentration as they sit together in order to be painted together as oneThis exclusive Sportsmail picture shows how each of the two athletes were painted in order to make a crocodileRelph (left) won gold at the 2012 Paralympics in London while Sbihi (right) won a bronze medal four years ago3. ROBBIE GRABARZ - HIGH JUMPRobbie, 28, won bronze at the Olympic Stadium four years ago and is determined to do even better this time after knee surgery in 2014. 'Preparations are going really well,' he said. 'I am putting everything technical into place. It is a great place to be in ahead of the Games.'Body artist Emma Fay carefully applies paint onto Robbie Grabarz's torso as he waits to be transformed into a poison dart frogGrabarz's head and hair is painted white as he is gradually transformed into a poison dart flog to continue the Brazilian themeEmma Fay looks on her mobile phone as she takes guidance in transforming the British pole vaulter into a poisonous frogGrabarz poses in the shape of a frog after being painted (left) and gives a thumbs up after winning bronze at London 20124. JOSEF CRAIG - PARALYMPIC SWIMMINGJosef, now 19, was Britain's youngest medallist at the 2012 Paralympics, winning 400m freestyle gold — and was named BBC Young Sports Personality of the Year. He said: 'I'm in the best shape of my life and really can't wait to compete.'Paralympic swimmer Josef Craig will be hoping for a repeat performance when he takes part in this summer's GamesThe 19-year-old takes up a serious stance as he is turned into a piranha by body artist Emma Fay ahead of the GamesCraig (left, painted as a piranha) achieved success at London 2012 by winning gold in the 400m freestyle S7 (right)5. MAX WHITLOCK - GYMNASTICSMax, 23, last year became the first British man to win World Championships gymnastics gold, on the pommel horse. He said: 'I know I can push myself further. I have to make sure I'm performing clean routines on the day.'British athlete Max Whitlock looks away from the camera as he hold his stance while being painted by two body artistsWhitlock grins as he is transformed from a Rio 2016 hopeful into a tamarin monkey during the photoshootThe 23-year-old knows a thing or two about swinging like a monkey as the gymnast won two bronze medals at London 20126. JADE JONES - TAEKWONDOJade, 23, will be hoping to replicate the success she tasted in London 2012 when she won gold in front of her home crowd. She said of this summer's Games in Brazil: 'It’s a different pressure this time - I was the underdog last time, but if I don’t win gold in Rio I’ll be devastated.'Jade Jones plants his arm on the floor as she stays still ahead of being transformed into a Brazilian snakeJones poses in the stance ahead of being painted green - she is confident of winning gold at this summer's OlympicsJones (left, painted as a Brazilian snake) poses with the gold medal she received following her exploits at London 2012No one supports British athletes more than National Lottery players. If you play The National Lottery, you're part of theteam #IamTeamGB.