
Team GB Olympians: The seven athletes to watch out for at Rio 2016



The first full day of Olympic action takes place on August 6, with the shooting, cycling, beach volleyball and the women's rugby sevens. Sportsmail has put together a guide to the seven to follow throughout the Olympic Games and the Paralympic Games in Brazil.Katarina Johnson-Thompson - Heptathlon - Age: 23Was just happy to be at the London Games as a 19-year-old. Looked a medal contender for Rio from a long way out but then came the horror show of three fouls in the long jump at last year’s World Championships. Must now show she is a woman for the big occasion.Katarina Johnson-Thompson has to show she is a woman for the big occasion in RioAdam Gemili - Athletics (200m, 4 x 100m relay) - Age: 22The sprinter is now a serious contender on the world stage and is aiming to go under 20 seconds and win a medal in the 200metres in Rio. Relay honours could beckon in the 4 x 100m, too, if Great Britain’s very talented but notoriously unreliable team can get the baton round.Adam Gemili is aiming to win a medal in the 200m after becoming a serious contenderChris Mears - Diving (3m synchronised springboard) - Age: 23Mears is a diver who won a world bronze medal in the three-metre synchronised event with Jack Laugher last year — no mean feat for an athlete who balances training and competing with outside interests such as being a music producer, calendar model and gay icon.Chris Mears balances training and competing with music production and being a gay iconMax Whitlock - Gymnastics - Age: 23Another who has kicked on from London 2012 to become a genuine star. He is the favourite for gold on the pommel horse in Rio. He has also built up a healthy rivalry in that discipline with British team-mate Louis Smith, a former winner of Strictly Come Dancing. Whitlock, the 2015 world champion, will be hoping to add a second medal in the team event, too.Max Whitlock has improved significantly since London 2012 and is now a genuine starBecky James - Cycling (Sprint, keirin) - Age: 24It was been a turbulent three years for James since she won two world titles in Minsk in 2013, as she underwent knee surgery and suffered a cancer scare, but a world bronze this year suggests that this talented cyclist is getting back to her best. She will contest the women’s sprint and keirin in Rio. James is the girlfriend of Wales and British and Irish Lions rugby star George North.Becky James is back to her best after a turbulent three years which involved health issuesHarry Brown - Wheelchair Basketball - Age: 22Brown became the youngest player to represent Great Britain’s wheelchair basketball team in 2011 when he made his debut aged 16. He will make his Paralympic debut in Rio next month.Harry Brown made his debut for GB's team at 16 in 2011 - the youngest player everSally Brown - Para-Athletics - Age: 21The T46 sprinter reached the 100m final for single arm amputees at London 2012, finishing sixth, but injuries have cost her a place in the British team for the Rio Games. The Northern Irish athlete will watch boyfriend and Paralympic champion Jonnie Peacock star on the track instead.Injuries have cost Sally Brown a place in the British team for the Paralympic Games in RioMoney raised by National Lottery players has been changing lives for 21 years. £35billion has gone to the arts, charities and heritage projects across the UK. Find out where your money goes at www.lotterygoodcauses.org.ukThe views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.