
Rio Olympics 2016: Sportsmail's day-by-day guide to all the action taking place in Brazil this summer



The greatest show on earth - the Olympic Games - is nearly upon us with the 2016 Rio show-piece set to get underway on August 6.Before that we'll have the opening ceremony as athletes from Great Britain and across the globe get ready to bid for gold, silver and bronze in Brazil.Here, Sportsmail provides you with a detailed day-by-day guide to all the action and who is in competing when and where...The Rio 2016 Olympics is almost upon us as the world's best athletes descend on BrazilThe Games officially begins with the opening ceremony on Friday, August 5OPENING CEREMONY - Friday, August 5The ceremony begins at midnight, UK time, and will be staged in the Maracana Stadium, built to host the 1950 World Cup.Unlike most opening ceremonies of recent times, including at London 2012, this is not a sell-out. Seats remain available at prices up to £1,066.Show director Fernando Meirelles, the director of films City of God and The Constant Gardener, says his work will showcase a vision of Brazil and what it will become.Brazilian model Gisele Bundchen — married to NFL legend Tom Brady — is set to star. The sport gets underway with the start of the Olympic women’s football, from Wednesday.The men’s tournament starts a day later and will be followed feverishly by locals. Neymar and Co get their home Games underway against South Africa at 8pm.DAY 1 - Saturday, August 6MEDALS: 12 golds across seven sports from archery to weightlifting.BRITAIN DREAMS... of gold for Chris Froome in the road race, from 9.30am. Froome won his third Tour de France this month. France’s Romain Bardet, second in the TDF, Froome’s fellow Brit Adam Yates (4th), Australia’s Richie Porte (5th) and Spain’s Alejandro Valverde (6th) will be Rio rivals.THE WORLD WATCHES... as rugby sevens makes an Olympics debut, kicking off with France v Spain in the women’s tournament. The first gold of the Olympics should be won about 3.30pm, in the women’s 10m air rifle. Then late in the Rio night, Chinese swimmer Sun Yang, who won 400m freestyle gold in 2012 but has since served a drug ban and a prison stint for a motoring offence, aims to retain his title, perhaps against GB’s James Guy.After his Tour de France win Chris Froome will bid for Olympic road race gloryDAY 2 - Sunday, August 7MEDALS: 14 golds across eight sports from archery to weightlifting.BRITAIN DREAMS... of a podium place at least for cyclist Lizzie Armitstead in the women’s road race; and of gold for swimming world champion Adam Peaty in the 100m breaststroke.THE WORLD WATCHES... as swimmer Michael Phelps, the man with more Olympic golds than anyone in history (18), perhaps adds another if part of the US team in the 4x100m freestyle final in his comeback Games.Elsewhere, Qatar make their Games handball debut against Croatia and their team, most of them born outside Qatar, will give a controversial glimpse of things to come when they stage the 2022 World Cup. The tiny Gulf state lacks people, and sportspeople, so tends to nationalise foreigners instead. Plastic Qataris, anyone?DAY 3 - Monday, August 8MEDALS: 14 golds across eight sports from diving to weightlifting.BRITAIN DREAMS... of podium places for Tom Daley and Dan Goodfellow in the 10m synhcro diving final; of a medal in the men’s gymnastics team final; and of a medal for James Guy, hopefully in the 200m freestyle final.THE WORLD WATCHES... as American Missy Franklin, who has been hampered by injury since winning four golds at London 2012, might reach the 100m backstroke final. A phrase likely to heard often during the weightlifting will be ‘and reigning medalist so-and-so is absent after failing a drugs test’.Today’s missing champion in the men’s 62kg category is doper Kim Un-guk, of North Korea.Tom Daley is one of Britain's most famous Olympians and is targeting a gold medal in RioDAY 4 - Tuesday, August 9MEDALS: 15 golds across eight sports from canoe slalom to weightlifting.BRITAIN DREAMS... of gold for slalom canoeist David Florence. In the pool, GB’s men dream of a shock upset in the 4x200m freestyle relay against the US.THE WORLD WATCHES... as Michael Phelps and Chad Le Clos of South Africa — a breakout star of London 2012 in and out of the swimming pool — may go head to head in the 200m butterfly final. The women’s gymnastics final promises to be spellbinding as the US seek to retain gold.Fiji has never won any Olympic medal but are favourites for gold in the men’s rugby sevens; coached by Englishman Ben Ryan, they start their tournament against hosts Brazil.DAY 5 - Wednesday, August 10MEDALS: 20 golds across 11 sports from canoe slalom to weightlifting.BRITAIN DREAMS... of gold for Chris Froome in the time trial, or at least a podium place, perhaps a second inside the opening week. At the diving, Jack Laugher and Chris Mears seek a medal in the 3m sychro. Britain’s men will be hoping to avoid a drubbing by New Zealand in the rugby sevens.THE WORLD WATCHES... as Japan’s Kohei Uchimura, one of the most consistently dominant performers in his field, goes for all-round gymnastics gold. His haul includes five Olympic medals and 10 world titles. Great Britain’s Max Whitlock in among the challengers.To say China have dominated Olympic table tennis is an understatement: they’ve won 24 of 28 gold medals, all-time, and will win more today.Japan gymanst Kohei Uchimura is one of the most consistently dominant performers in his fieldDAY 6 - Thursday, August 11MEDALS: 19 golds across 11 sports from archery to table tennis.BRITAIN DREAMS... of gold in the men’s sprint cycling. Rower Kath Grainger seeks a second gold after London.THE WORLD WATCHES... as Michael Phelps seeks to win a fourth consecutive 200m medley gold. You may have heard golf has returned to the Games after a 112-year absence.Cheer for men’s world No 308 Siddikur Rahman, the first Bangladeshi to qualify for any Olympic Games in his own right, as opposed to via a wild card or ‘guest’ entry.DAY 7 - Friday, August 12MEDALS: 24 golds across 12 sports from archery to weightlifting.BRITAIN DREAMS... of multiple golds. Bradley Wiggins should be part of the team pursuit final. Rowers Helen Glover and Heather Stanning eye a second Olympic pairs title. Andy and Jamie Murray could be looking at a men’s doubles podium place. GB’s dressage team seek a repeat of London glory, Charlotte Dujardin prominent.THE WORLD WATCHES... as Katie Ledecky is a hot favourite in the 800m freestyle where GB hopes of a podium place lie with Jazz Carlin. Michael Phelps and Chad Le Clos could reprise another 2012 final in the 100m fly. New Zealand shot-putter Valerie Adams is seeking a third Olympic gold in a row.Her mum is Tongan. She is one of 18 children fathered by her English dad, Sid Adams.Andy Murray is the defending tennis Olympic champion following his victory at London 2012Bradley Wiggins should be part of the team pursuit final on Friday, August 12DAY 8 - Saturday, August 13MEDALS: 20 golds across nine sports from athletics to weightlifting.BRITAIN DREAMS... of Super Saturday II . Four years ago in London, the Olympic Stadium thrilled to the gold feats of Mo Farah, Jess Ennis and Greg Rutherford. Today the trio will look for a repeat performance. Earlier in the velodrome, Laura Trott and Co go for for gold in the team pursuit.THE WORLD WATCHES... as Usain Bolt starts the 100m heats, and Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce goes for gold in the women’s 100m final. Serena Williams may be going for gold in the women’s tennis singles final. Controversy and brilliance mix as Caster Semenya opens her tilt at the 400m title in round one.Mo Farah will be hoping for a repeat of London's Super Saturday but this time in BrazilAugust 13, 2012 was one of the finest days in the history of British athleticsFarah says he is in the shape of his life as he bids to follow up his two golds from 2012DAY 9 - Sunday, August 14MEDALS: 22 golds across 12 sports from athletics to wrestling.BRITAIN DREAMS... of one or more places on the podium at the gymnastics where Max Whitlock and Louis Smith compete on the pommel horse. Andy Murray will look to successfully defend his Olympic tennis title in the men’s final. Jason Kenny will be going for gold in the men’s sprint at the velodrome. The golf tournament reaches its final round and Justin Rose and Danny Willett will be looking for medals to add to their Major titles.THE WORLD WATCHES... as sprint king Usain Bolt aims to complete a hat-trick of 100m titles after glory at London 2012 and Beijing 2008. Brazil’s only male wrestler at the Games is Eduard Soghomonyan, who until December was Armenian. His nationality switch caused a local brouhaha.Usain Bolt is the most famous Olympian of all and will be the headline act in BrazilDAY 10 - Monday, August 15MEDALS: 17 golds across 11 sports from athletics to wrestling.BRITAIN DREAMS... of a first Olympic medal for Mark Cavendish, who stormed to multiple stage wins at the Tour De France before dropping out to get ready for the Rio Games. He wants omnium gold today. Charlotte Dujardin is favourite in the dressage final. Nick Thompson could feature in sailing’s laser medal races.THE WORLD WATCHES... as Caster Semenya bids to compete half of a proposed 400m and 800m double against a backdrop of debate over genetic advantage. The badminton doubles tournament at London 2012 was the surprise location for match-fixing controversy after players were chucking matches to get easier draws in the quarter-finals. The governing body changed the rules since and we’ll know if it has worked by today.The controversial Caster Semenya will bid to compete a proposed 400m and 800m doubleDAY 11 - Tuesday, August 16MEDALS: 25 golds across 12 sports from athletics to wrestling.BRITAIN DREAMS... of big medals in the Veldrome for Laura Trott (omnium), Jason Kenny (keirin) and Becky James (sprint). Sailor Giles Scott will be hoping to justify pre-Games favouritism in the Finn class. Laura Muir in the 1500m will be bidding for a shock podium place.THE WORLD WATCHES... as Usain Bolt starts in the heats of the 200m and Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce should be easing through the semi-finals of the 200m. Men and women compete alongside each other on equal terms only in equestrianism and the new sailing event, today’s Mixed Nacra 17.Welsh athlete Becky James will be one of Britain's hopes competing in track cyclingDAY 12 - Wednesday, August 17MEDALS: 16 golds across nine sports from athletics to wrestling.BRITAIN DREAMS... of glory for Dina Asher-Smith (200m final), Tiffany Porter (100m hurdles), Saskia Clark and Hannah Mills in the 470 sailing and Gabby Adcock, in the badminton mixed doubles along husband Chris.THE WORLD WATCHES... as beach volleyball is played on Copacabana Beach. Brazil have been involved in seven of 10 finals since it was introduced. It was reported last month that scientists had found drug-resistant ‘super bacteria’ in water systems across Rio. Multiple ‘polluted water’ stories are a given at these Games.DAY 13 - Thursday, August 18MEDALS: 23 golds across 11 sports from athletics to wrestling.BRITAIN DREAMS... of two medals in the men’s triathlon from Alistair and Jonathan Brownlee. Reigning taekwondo champion Jade Jones is ranked No1 in the 57kg category, staged today. Over at the diving, Sarah Barrow and Tonia Couch are up against each other in the 10m.THE WORLD WATCHES... as Usain Bolt goes for gold in a 200m final. American Ashton Eaton will be trying to do what Daley Thompson once did, win back-to-back Olympic decathlon golds. The Rio gold medals are made of 92.5 per cent silver, 6.16 per cent copper and 1.34 cent gold, and are worth £450 each.Alistair and Jonathan Brownlee will go head-to-head for gold in the men’s triathlonDAY 14 - Friday, August 19MEDALS: 22 golds across 14 sports from athletics to wrestling.BRITAIN DREAMS... of major upsets in the 4x100m finals. In all likelihood Jamaica’s men will win the men’s race, while their women will take gold in theirs. Liam Philips could be podium chasing in the BMX final, while Samantha Murray aspires to a medal in the modern pentathlon. GB women’s hockey team will want to reach today’s final.THE WORLD WATCHES... as Fabiana Murer thrills the host nation as she goes for pole vault gold. Moldova have a strong contender in the men’s taekwondo 80kg category today: Aaron Cook, formerly of Team GB, who defected after a bust-up over London 2012 selection.DAY 15 - Saturday, August 20MEDALS: 31 golds across 17 sports from athletics to wrestling.BRITAIN DREAMS... of multiple golds as Mo Farah starts as favourite in the 5,000m, Nicola Adams seeks to successfully defend her flyweight boxing title, and Jamie Cooke (men’s modern pentathlon) and Non Stanford, Vicky Holland and Helen Jenkins (all triathlon) have podium shots. Tom Daley competes in the 10m diving.THE WORLD WATCHES... as the men’s football final is staged, with hosts Brazil expected to feature. Caster Semenya is favourite in the 800m. Many of the world’s top male golfers have withdrawn from the Games. None of the women’s top 30 withdrew. Great Britain’s Charley Hull could be in the mix today.DAY 16 - Sunday, August 21MEDALS: 12 golds across eight sports from athletics to wrestling.BRITAIN DREAMS... of a decent showing from the three men in the marathon — Derek and Callum Hawkins and Eritrean-born Tsegai Tewelde, who was granted asylum nine years ago.Muhammad Ali is in Rio fighting for Team GB. Yes, you read that right. Ali is 20. He’s from Bury. He floats like a butterfly.THE WORLD WATCHES... as Team US win men’s basketball gold... yet again. It’s not the Dream Team of years past. But they’ll win. They’ve won 13 of 16 contested Games since 1936 and always got a medal. There are more than 200,000 Brazilians living in Japan, which will stage the 2020 Olympics.